	An archaeological excavation into Ashurbanipal's Library reveals
	the exciting true story of the technology behind double-sided floppies,
	as told by the language-lawyers themselves in excerpts from...

In the Matter of

CERTAIN DOUBLE-SIDED FLOPPY DISK.
DRIVES AND COMPONENTS THEREOF

Investigation No. 337-TA-215

USITC PUBLICATION 1860

MAY 1986

United States International Trade Commission / Washington, DC 20436

OSTRAKON THE FIRST
----------------------------------------------------------------------


B. Patent Infringement

The ‘573 patent contains 16 claims, of which three (claims 1, 5, and 12) -
are independent. Cx 601. It represents a mixture of two technologies used in
earlier data storage devices; namely, the penetrating head of the tape drive
and the air bearing head of the hard or rigid disk drive, Brown, Tr. 2522.

Tape, a very pliant or limp material, is transformed into a flat stable
surface in a tape drive when the data transfer head penetrates the plane of
the tape, such that the tape wraps itself around the head resulting in close
head to tape contact to enable accurate data transfer. The wrapping action
provides contact over an area rather than a point and assures intimate contact
even if there is slight misalignment between tape and magnetic core. 
Stoddard, Tr. 4888-89; FF 235C. The transducer of a rigid disk drive is
suspended on a gimbal spring so that it can move up or down, or pitch or roll
in accordance with the tiny imperfections of the disk. This permits the disk
and head to always maintain the same relationship for data transfer. The head
in a rigid disk drive floats on a microscopically thin cushion of air so it
will not abrade the disk and erase the stored data.

In the device defined by the '573 patent, the lower head maintains a
similar relationship with the pliant, limp, floppy disk as the tape head did
with the tape. The penetration of the lower head into the plane of the Limp
disk results in similar wrapping action as in a tape drive (Stoddard,
Tr. 4495; Cx 601, col. 5, lines 43-47) and creates a flat stable surface for
the upper head to slide against.[^4] The gimbal mounted upper head relates to
the floppy disk as the gimbal mounted head does with the rigid disk. Brown,
Tr. 2522-23.

[^4]: Prior single-sided drives utilized spherical heads (Tandon Dep.,
      MRPX 34, at 360; Stoddard Tr. 4538), but the Tandon patent specification
      described a flat lower head (CX 601, col. 4, lines 7-11), which appears
      necessary to the Tandon type head assembly. Tandon Dep., MRPX 34, 
      at 184-85, 377; Stoddard, Tr. 4543-45.

In the Tandon system,[^5] the lower head is not intended to move in normal
operation. Tandon Dep., MRPX 34, at 414-15. The Tandon philosophy is to let
the lower head set the reference plane for the disk. The reference plane is a
relatively constant non-moving plane, a stable platform which makes head to
disk compliance for the upper gimbal mounted head easier. Tandon Dep.,
MRPX 34, at 472-73. As the heads are moved to the various radial tracks of
the disk, the penetration of the lower head and wrapping action of the pliant
disk, transform the disk into a rigid surface at the area where the lower head
penetrates. FF 228.

[^5]: The Tandon system refers to the three independent claims of the '573
      patent that were grouped together by Tandon patent counsel in making the
      amendments which resulted in the patent. Cx 611, at 53; FF 229, 235D-35M.


OSTRAKON THE SECOND
----------------------------------------------------------------------

A. Background of the Invention.

13. In 1964, the state-of-the-art drive was reel-to-reel tape
drive. Soliman, Tr. 10-11.

14. In 1964 or 1965, the industry pursued an information storage
product called a magnetic card random access memory device. Sollman, Tr. 12.
IBM also was working on a new storage device called a disk drive, using a
rigid disk 30 inches in diameter. Sollman, Tr. 13-15.

14A. The development of the floppy disk drive began in 1968 at IBM.
The first floppy disk drive, the IBM Model 23 FD, was a read-only, oF
single-sided machine used for program loading and included a spherical,
stainless steel transducer or head on one side of the disk, a spring-loaded
pressure pad on the other side of the disk opposite the head, a carriage for
supporting these parts, and a carriage drive mechanism for moving the head
along a radius of the disk to access the concentric data tracks. Dalziel,
CX 822, 1.4; CX 601, col. 1, lines 15-36; Cx 643.

14B. The IBM Model 23 FD is shown and described in U.S. Letters
Patent No. 3,678,481 (Dalziel et al.) filed March 13, 1970. Dalziel, Cx 822,
G4; Cx 643.

14C. In conjuction with the 23 FD disk drive, IBM developed the
first floppy ‘disk: drive in which a Mylar recording disk was enclosed in a
square jacket or envelope with head and pressure pad access slots and central
openings for receiving the drive hub and positioning cone. Both this
“diskette” and the Single-sided floppy drive became worldwide-standards.
Dalziel, CX 822, ¶ 4; CX 643.

15. About in 1972 a floppy disk drive was being developed by 15 to 20
different companies in the United States. Sollman, Tr. 31; see id., 23.

16. U.S. Letters Patent No. 4,151,573 (the '573 patent) issued on
April 24, 1979, from Application Serial No. 805,731 (the ‘731 application)
filed June ‘13, 1977, and names Sirjang L. Tandon, Alfred C. Hackney, and
Roy A. Appleauist as the joint inventors. The patent is entitled, “Magnetic
Recording Device for Double-Sided Media.” Cx 601; see CX 611.

17. Single-sided floppy disk drive systems were in use prior to the
advent of double-sided floppy drives. The single-sided drives employ a single
transducer for contacting the disk. On the opposite side from the transducer,
and also in contact with the disk, was a felt pressure pad to press the disk
against the transducer. Cx 601, col. 1, lines 20-36; Cx 643.

18. The double-sided floppy disk drive described in the '573 patent
includes in part a dual read/write head or transducer assembly for
transferring data to and from the floppy disk, a central hub and spindle for
gripping and rotating the disk, a front cover which may be pivoted open to
permit insertion and removal of the disk, and a mechanism for positioning the
transducer assembly to a selected radial track position. The floppy disk is
enclosed within a protective cover jacket having access slots through which
the transducers can come into contact with the opposed surfaces of the disk.
CX 601, col. 3, lines 49-63.

19. With reference to the specification and drawings of, the '573
patent which describe and show an exemplary form of the patent, there is
included a read/write transducer assembly comprising generally a carriage, a
lower or first transducer (also called the side 0︀ transducer) for
transferring data to and from one side of the disk, and an upper or second
transducer (also called the side 1 transducer) which opposes the lower
transducer and transfers data to and from the other side of the disk. cx 601.

20. The lower side 0︀ transducer is mounted on the carriage while
the upper side 1 transducer is mounted on a support arm that is coupled to the
carriage by a flexure spring which serves as a pivot for the support arm.
CX 601.

21. A torsional spring loads the support arm towards the carriage
thereby urging the upper side 1 transducer towards the disk and the opposed
lower side 0︀ transducer. Cx 601.

22. The upper head is mounted at the end of a short length gimbal
spring that permits the upper transducer to pitch and roll in response to the
tendencies of the disk to deflect. Cx 601.

23. In November 1976, IBM introduced the world's first double~sided
floppy disk drive. Sollman, Tr. 60-61.

24. The diskettes for the IBM double-sided disk drive were coated
on both sides. The disk drive placed two heads, one on each side of the
diskette, in contact or near-contact with the diskette. The heads were both
cantilevered and the diskette would flow between them. Sollman, Tr. 61-62.

25. Mr. James T. Engh, director of the double-sided floppy disk
drive program at IBM, summarized the double-sided floppy development work at
IBM in an article entitled "The IBM Diskette and Diskette Drive” published in
the September 1981, IBM Journal of Research and Development. Engh, Tr. 902,
916; CX 664.

26. The IBM double-sided head assembly is described in the '573
patent under the “Background of the Invention." That description, in
pertinent part, states:

    Recently, however, the floppy disc industry has started to
    use both sides of the floppy disc for data transfer operations,
    the purpose primarily being to increase capacity. Thus only a
    single relatively low speed accessing mechanism continues to be
    employed, and the transducers on opposite sides of the element
    are in a generally opposed relation, with only a slight offset
    in the head gaps to avoid flux interaction. Because it is
    thought necessary to account for perturbations in movement of
    the flexible disc from its principal plane, recording heads and
    mounts are utilized that are essentially derived from the flying
    head technology. Specifically, a pair of small identical slider
    heads are used, each mounted adjacent the end of a long
    resilient cantilevered head support, and mechanically urged
    together with a total force of approximately 8 grams. The
    concept is that as the flexible disc deviates from its principal
    plane, both of the heads tend to follow the actual position of
    the disc passing between them and permit contact recording
    without excessive wear or signal degradation.

Cx 601, col. 1, lines 37-57.

27. At the time of the invention of the '573 patent, the IBM
approach was considered by those in the industry to be the only practical,
approach to achieving double-sided floppy disk recording and reproduction.
Comstock, Tr. 1510-11.

28. In the Tandon patent, the IBM double-sided head assembly was
described as having significant deficiencies:

    There are, however, significant problems and limitations
    arising from the use of this double, symmetrical and very
    compliant head mechanism. The resilient mounts are relatively
    complex and must be precisely manufactured, and therefore are
    costly to manufacture and maintain. Furthermore, they require
    redesign, by each floppy disc manufacturer, of the carriage,
    head support mechanisms and associated structure, because [sic]
    they have volumetric configurations incompatible with current
    structures. In addition, the head loading force and the
    mechanical configuration require that special provision be made
    to insure that the head does not constantly land at the same
    point and thereby cause undue wear. In addition, the long
    flexible columns used in the existing type of structure tend to
    bend in a slight S shape or shift differentially in response to
    perturbations in the disc surface position. This introduces
    both a degree of offset relative to the track center, reducing
    reproduced signal amplitude and tending to limit the positional
    accuracy which can be obtained, which in turn limits the track
    density which can be achieved. Furthermore, the two resiliently
    mounted heads do not settle quickly into operative relation,
    once landed on the disc, and this delay must be taken into
    account before data transfer operations can begin. Of great.
    importance from the standpoint of the floppy disc systems
    manufacturer is the fact that he not only cannot use a portion
    of his existing inventory for heads and carriages, but must
    redesign a portion of his system for the new double-sided
    configuration.

Cx 601, col. 1, line 62 to col. 2, line 24.

29. The IBM approach was also the subject of the declarations of
two engineers filed in support of the '573 patent. According to these
declarations, the IBM product was, among other things, subject to positioning
errors and “column buckling,” and was complex and difficult to manufacture.
Muelners Decl., CX 611 (Feb. 28, 1978); Smith Decl., Cx 611 (Feb. 28, 1978).

30. The difficulties encountered by IBM in the manufacture of the
IBM double-sided transducer assembly are described in IBM U.S. Letters Patent
No. 4,263,630. This patent indicates that special fabrication techniques had
to be adopted by IBM to assure that the transducer suspensions were precisely
symmetrical and that they would bear against the disk with uniform forces.
CX 651.

31. IBM U.S. Letters Patent No. 4,202,020 relates to a control
system for randomizing the loading and unloading of the IBM double-sided
floppy disk drive transducer assembly to overcome the media wear problems
caused by the IBM transducer assembly. CX 649.

32. The device embodied in the Tandon patent solved the problems
encountered by the IBM double-sided disk drive by providing an asymmetrical
transducer assembly in which one of the transducers is used as a fixed
positional reference for the floppy disk. Comstock, Tr. 394; CX 601, col. 2,
lines 44-52.

33. The essence of the '573 patent is that the lower or side 0︀
head is in a fixed position with respect to the nominal plane of the disk so
that it provides a reference surface for the pliant disk. Comstock, Tr. 1494.

34. The invention described by the '573 patent is substantially
simpler, less costly, easier to maintain, and more stable and reliable in
operation than the IBM-type two-sided transducer structure and solved the
“column buckling" problem. Smith, Tr. 2316; Muelner Decl., Cx 611, 16
(Feb. 28, 1978); Smith Decl., Cx 611, 1 6 (Feb. 28, 1978).

35. The disk is very pliant and limp, and acts almost like a tape.
The envelop gives the disk support. Comstock, Tr. 1583.

36. The following excerpt from Electronic News, July 10, 1979,
states:

    Some Firms Drop IBM 2-sided Floppy Head Design

    Magnetic head problems that have severely impacted sales of
    double-sided floppy disc drives ... have forced several OEM
    vendors to turn to a head design different from IBM's,
    long-considered the defacto industry standard.

    CalComp, Pertec and Siemens are among the firms that have
    topped using the IBM head design and have begun using the
    design developed jointly by Tandon Magnetics and CalComp.
    These firms claimed the IBM design, which uses two floating
    heads [to] read and record data is less efficient and more
    expensive to make.

			* * *

    Industry observers have said the media wear problem has
    been the main reason double-sided sales have not been
    anywhere near what experts had expected. Suppliers
    admitted being at least nine months behind schedule for
    double-sided.

    The Tandon design incorporates a fixed head for reading and
    recording on the bottom of the diskette and a floating head
    at the top of the diskette. Its supporters claim that even
    if the problems in the IBM have been solved the Tandon head
    is still the more attractive alternative.

			    * * *

    Terry J. Hardie, Product Sales Manager at CDC, said the
    primary problems with the IBM design have been during the
    loading and unloading of the heads. He said because of the
    design the heads continuously loaded and unloaded at the
    same spot on the diskette, causing quick media wear.

    Mr. Hardie said CDC has attempted to solve the problem by
    softening the force which is required to load and unload.

Cx 640.

37. The following excerpt from an article appearing in Systems
International, April 1980, and entitled "Mini-Floppy Disk Drives," states:

    The double-sided r/w head for floppy disc drives was first
    introduced by IBM and soon taken up by other companies. It was
    a dual flexure head by which is meant that both sides of the r/w
    head moved when it was loaded on the floppy disc . . . . The
    idea behind using a dual flexure head was its apparent ability
    to allow each head to follow closely the contours of the media
    on both sides of the floppy disc. Tests indicated that early
    designs did not meet the ‘tap-tap' test, wherein the head is
    repeatedly loaded on the same spot on the rotating disc. The
    highly dual flexure head had the tendency not to land flat:
    sharp edges of the head would cut into the mylar of the disc.

    In addition, when the head made contact with the media it would
    rebound. several times before settling. Tap-tap tests were
    showing media damage after a short period of operation. A more
    succeasful design was later introduced by Tandon Magnetics.
    This company designed a single flexure head . . . which after
    some final refinements worked well and eliminated the severe
    media wear of the dual flexure head. Many double sided disc
    vendors today utilize Tandon.

CX 633, at 44.

OSTRAKON THE THIRD
----------------------------------------------------------------------

162. The floppy disk used with disk drives are very pliant and can
be strongly influenced by small forces. Clamping of the disk by the hub of
the spindle drive can send wrinkles through the disk and those wrinkles can be
different from one clamping to another. Accordingly, when the disk is
inserted and clamped, one may see a wide range of variation in the disk
waviness. The disk was inserted in the drive and clamped.

OSTRAKON THE FOURTH
----------------------------------------------------------------------

190. In-a floppy disk drive, it is important to avoid resonance
because it can affect the alignment of the transducer and track and can
influence the wear of the disk. In tracking down these resonances, it is
helpful to know the frequency of the vibration so that the source of the
vibraticn can be traced back to particular elements in the system. Comstock,
Tr. 4101-03.

191. The resonance phenomenon applies to all floppy disk drives
generally. Comstock, Tr. 4103.

OSTRAKON THE FIFTH
----------------------------------------------------------------------

There is general agreement among all the technical experts that there are
two types of disk movements away from the nominal plane of the disk, and that
these movements exert "substantial" forces on the heads while in operation;
large scale waviness, sometimes referred to as undulations, and small scale
Movements such as manufacturing imperfections and variations in the thickness
of the media. Brown, Tr. 2628, 2630; Hayashi, Tr. 2848-49; Lewis, Tr. 2892.
In each of the systems, the two heads and the disk make up a sandwich. Each
head plays a role in providing close and stable head to disk compliance.
Comstock, Tr. 1552; Lewis, Tr. 2887; Brown, Tr. 2523.

The heads are loaded upon the disk through arms and springs, cooperating
with the head mountings to bring the transducers into data transfer
relationship with the disk. Stoddard, Tr. 4526-27; Tandon Dep., MRPX 34, at
428-29; Hackney Dep., MRPX 36, at 24. The '573 patent specification makes
clear that these loading forces are separate from the force exerted by the
fixed positional reference: "The slight wrapping of the pliant disc about the
surface of the fixed transducer provides a part the function of insuring close
or contacting relation, and _the remainder of the cor[r]ective action needed is
supplied by the force of the slider transducer_." (Emphasis added.) Cx 601,
col. 5, lines 43-47; see Tandon Dep., MRPX 34, at 182-183. The load arm is an
important part of the design. Hackney Dep., MRPX 36, at 116-18. The loading
forces of the arms transmitted into the disk through the heads play a more
significant role in dealing with unwanted disk movement then the penetrating
lower head. Comstock, Tr. 5246-47. These loading forces eliminate the large
scale waviness of the disk. Hayashi, Tr. 4282; FF 221. After the large scale
movements are eliminated, the heads can either iron out the small scale
variations in the disk, or move in response to disk motion to accommodate
these variations.

OSTRAKON THE SIXTH
----------------------------------------------------------------------

			    PUBLIC VERSION

		   CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION DELETED

				  6

2-3 Marunouchi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100. Mitsubishi Electronics
America, Inc., is a subsidiary of Mitsubishi Electric Corporation and has
offices at 911 Knox Street, Torrance, California 90502.

     The Articles Under Investigation and the Patented Invention

A. Background of the invention

The articles under investigation are double-sided floppy disk drives.
Floppy disk drives are data storage systems that utilize a floppy disk as the
magnetic storage surface. Floppy disks are made of limp material and have a
magnetic coating.

The drives utilize transducers, also referred to as “heads,” which
“read/write” information from the disk. The transducers contain magnetic
cores. In a double-sided floppy disk drive system the disk is sandwiched
between two transducers. The transducers are mounted on supports. The
transducers and supports are known as the head assembly. Contact between the
transducers and the disk must be extremely close and the drive must deal with
the undulations and waviness of the disk. If close contact between the disk
and the transducer is not maintained, error in data transfer results.[^15] [^16]

Floppy disks and drives come in three sizes--8-inch, 5-1/4 inch, and
3-1/2 inch--corresponding to the diameter of the disk. The trend in the disk
drive industry is toward smaller drives. Although there is still a
replacement market for 8-inch drives, they are practically obsolete.
Currently 5-1/4 inch drives are the most widely sold size of drive. The 3-1/2
inch drive is projected to be a large seller in the near future. [^17]

____
[^15]: For example, in the Mitsubishi drive a gap greater than 0.32 microns
       between the transducers and the disk produces unacceptable error.
       TR 2847.

[^16]: A more complete description of disk drive technology is in the
       Initial Determination (ID) at 13-15.

[^17]: ID at 145-47.
____

Double-sided floppy disk drives are manufactured in two heights: full
height and half-height, full height drives being twice the height of
half-height drives. Most double-sided disk drives sold today are half-height
drives.

The '573 patent [^18] was issued to Sirjang Tandon, Alfred Hackney, and
A. Applequist on April 24, 1979, and is currently assigned to Tandon
Corporation. Tandon has granted licenses under the '573 patent to IBM,
Control Data Corporation (CDC), Shugart Associates, and Texas Peripherals,
Inc. (TP). The '573 patent discloses a data storage system that utilizes
a head assembly for double-sided floppy disk drives.
Prior to the development of floppy disk drives, tape drives were commonly
used. Tape drives transfer data from flexible tape by utilizing a
non-gimballed transducer which forces the tape to wrap around the
transducer. [^19] Another type of drive is the rigid disk drive. The rigid
disk drive utilizes a transducer mounted on a gimbal or floating spring. [^20]
Early floppy disk drives were single-sided disk drives, i.e., the drives
had only one transducer. IBM developed one of the first single-sided floppy
disk drives. [^21] IBM also worked on the development of double-sided drives.
An early IBM double-sided floppy disk drive employed two gimballed
transducers. In this early IBM drive both transducers were gimbal mounted and
the transducers followed the movements of the disk. [^22] IBM and others
experienced difficulties in the development of double-sided disk drives
because of wear problems associated with the magnetic coating on the disk
which diminished the accuracy of data storage and access.

____
[^18]: The ‘573 patent is reproduced in the Appendix.

[^19]: ID at 31-32.

[^20]: Webster's Ninth New Collegiate Dictionary defines “gimbal” as a device
       that permits a body to freely incline in any direction or suspends it so
       that it will remain level when its support is tipped. See also FF 235N.

[^21]: FF 13-14C.

[^22]: CX 646 and CX 611 at 53.
____

The invention disclosed in the '573 patent overcame the problems
associated with the prior art devices by utilizing an asymmetrical head
assembly. [^23] The claimed invention combines rigid disk drive technology and
tape drive technology. In the device disclosed in the '573 patent the lower
transducer acts as a reference plane for the pliant disk and the upper
transducer is gimbal mounted and is urged against the disk. [^24]

[^23]: CX 601, col. 2, lines 48-60.

[^24]: Id.



